develop: 4 docs for optimizing sql (#8665)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-optimize-sql-overview.md

---

> title: Optimize SQL Performance Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Overview of Optimizing SQL Performance 
```

summary: Provides an overview of SQL performance tuning for TiDB application developers.
---

> # Optimize SQL Performance Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Overview o Optimizing SQL Performance 
```

This document introduces how to optimize the performance of SQL statements in TiDB. To get good performance, you can start with the following aspects:

* SQL performance tuning

> * Schema design: Based on your application workload patterns, you might need to make some changes to the table schema to avoid transaction contention or hot spots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Schema design: Based on your application workload patterns, you might need to change the table schema to avoid transaction contention or hot spots.
```

## SQL performance tuning

To get good SQL statement performance, you can follow these guidelines:

* Scan as few rows as possible. It is recommended to scan only the data you need and avoid scanning excess data.

> * Use the right index. Ensure that there is a corresponding index for the column in the `WHERE` clause in SQL. If not, the statement entails a full table scan and thus poor performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the right index. Ensure that there is a corresponding index for the column in the `WHERE` clause in SQL. If not, the statement entails a full table scan and thus causes poor performance.
```

> * Use the right join type. It is important to choose the right join type based on the relative size of the tables involved in the query. In general, TiDB's cost-based optimizer picks the best-performing join type. However, in a few cases, it might be better if the user manually specifies the join type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the right join type. It is important to choose the right join type based on the relative size of the tables involved in the query. In general, TiDB's cost-based optimizer picks the best-performing join type. However, in a few cases, you might need to manually specify a better join type.
```
